# kosnipata-drought-tolerance
Data from Variation in the Drought Tolerance of Tropical Understory Plant Communities across an Extreme Elevation and Precipitation Gradient by Catherine H. Bravo-Avila and Kenneth J. Feeley
https://doi.org/10.3390/plants12162957
https://www.mdpi.com/2223-7747/12/16/2957

Abstract
Little is known about how differences in water availability within the “super humid” tropics can influence the physiology of understory plant species and the composition of understory plant communities. We investigated the variation in the physiological drought tolerances of hundreds of understory plants in dozens of plant communities across an extreme elevation and precipitation gradient. Specifically, we established 58 understory plots along a gradient of 400–3600 m asl elevation and 1000–6000 mm yr−1 rainfall in and around Manu National Park in southeastern Peru. Within the plots, we sampled all understory woody plants and measured three metrics of physiological leaf drought tolerance—turgor loss point (TLP), cuticular conductance (Gmin), and solute leakage (SL)—and assessed how the community-level means of these three traits related to the mean annual precipitation (MAP) and elevation (along the study gradient, the temperature decreases linearly, and the vapor pressure deficit increases monotonically with elevation). We did not find any correlations between the three metrics of leaf drought tolerance, suggesting that they represent independent strategies for coping with a low water availability. Despite being widely used metrics of leaf drought tolerance, neither the TLP nor Gmin showed any significant relationships with elevation or the MAP. In contrast, SL, which has only recently been developed for use in ecological field studies, increased significantly at higher precipitations and at lower elevations (i.e., plants in colder and drier habitats have a lower average SL, indicating greater drought tolerances). Our results illustrate that differences in water availability may affect the physiology of tropical montane plants and thus play a strong role in structuring plant communities even in the super humid tropics. Our results also highlight the potential for SL assays to be efficient and effective tools for measuring drought tolerances in the field.
Keywords: Andean forests; drought tolerance; elevation gradient; solute leakage; tropical forest; understory plants
